Docs: Edit of contribute to docs guide (part 8 of doc improvement project) (#90405)
grafana/grafana: contribute/documentation/README.md

# Contribute to our documentation

> Welcome! We're glad you're here.

Reviewer: https://developers.google.com/style/periods#exclamation-points

Author: I'm aware of this guideline but I'm disregarding it in this case. A period after a one-word exclamation conveys a lack of enthusiasm, which is not appropriate. If you disagree let's take to style council in the future.

Reviewer: Sure, it's fine to disregard the style rules if it's done with consideration. To help future contributors, we should either:
- document the reasons one might disregard this rule if it's a general exception
- add a comment explaining the decision in the source file if it's a one-off

Author: I've added the ! exception to the doc style roundtable sheet for discussion. Keeping the ! at this moment.

> [Writers' Toolkit](https://grafana.com/docs/writers-toolkit/) is an open-source project intended to empower both internal and external contributors to help make our technical documentation even better.  

Reviewer: We've inherited a rule from the original Vale Google style that says it should be "open source" not open-source but I've not got a citation for that beyond the rule itself: https://github.com/errata-ai/Google/blob/master/Google/WordList.yml#L66

Author: you're correct! I was using the grammatically correct, dictionary-approved spelling with a hyphen for the adjectival form, but Google says no hyphens.

Reviewer: Thanks for checking.

I now tried searching for "google open source hyphen" and got https://opensource.google/documentation/reference/comms/style-guide#:~:text=Open%20source%3A%20Don't%20capitalize,(like%20Google%20Open%20Source) which does seem to be a citation I can use in future.

Author: Using open source.

Go to [Writers' Toolkit](https://grafana.com/docs/writers-toolkit/) for the following resources:

> - **Contribute** - Learn how can you contribute to Grafana Labs documentation.

Reviewer: This reads a bit funny to me. I think you are using the title of the page but in my head it sounds better as "contribution resources" rather than "contribute resources" but I'm not sure how to restructure the whole list around that change.

Author: fixed

- **Structure** - Learn how to organize and structure our documentation.

> - **Writing and style guide** - Guidelines that cover aspects of content such as style, tooling, workflows, markdown syntax, and more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Writing and style guide** - Guidelines that cover aspects of content such as style, tooling, workflows, Markdown syntax, and more.
```

Reviewer: We also need to fix the spelling of Markdown:

```suggestion
- **Writing and style guide** - Guidelines that cover aspects of content such as style, tooling, workflows, Markdown syntax, and more.
```

> - **Build and review guide** - Instructions for testing, linting, validating, and backporting our documentation.

Reviewer: Would these benefit from being links?

Author: i'd rather not add links because of added maintenance burden and low user benefit.

> If you're interested in contributing to our documentation, go to [Writers' Toolkit](https://github.com/grafana/writers-toolkit) repository.

Reviewer: Missing word? Maybe we should also clarify that we're talking about contributing to the documentation on writing rather than just "our documentation"?

```suggestion
If you're interested in contributing to our Writers' Toolkit documentation, go to the [Writers' Toolkit](https://github.com/grafana/writers-toolkit) repository.
```

Author: fixed, but in different way

> If you're interested in contributing to our documentation, go to [Writers' Toolkit](https://github.com/grafana/writers-toolkit) repository for writers' resources.

Reviewer: Following on from https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/90405#discussion_r1677414350.

I'm a bit confused by the "writers's resources" bit, but I'm no expert on grammar. Do the resources belong to the writers? I guess so?

Is it not "the Writers' Toolkit repository" rather than "Writers' Toolkit repository". I guess it could also be "Writers' Toolkit's repository" but that seems really off.

Is this easier to understand?
```suggestion
If you're interested in contributing to our writing resources, go to the [Writers' Toolkit](https://github.com/grafana/writers-toolkit) repository.
```

Author: Doc team discussion has preferred to omit "the" for some reason. See [Slack convo](https://raintank-corp.slack.com/archives/C01EK60DKC5/p1721848235399109).

Reviewer: My thought was that it was to use "the Writer's Toolkit repository" but not "Writers' Toolkit". In the same way, I'd think it's fine to do "the Grafana Agent repository" but not "the Grafana Agent" or "Grafana Agent's repository" (no product possessives).

Author: > Following on from [#90405 (comment)](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/90405#discussion_r1677414350).
> 
> I'm a bit confused by the "writers's resources" bit, but I'm no expert on grammar. Do the resources belong to the writers? I guess so?
> 
> Is it not "the Writers' Toolkit repository" rather than "Writers' Toolkit repository". I guess it could also be "Writers' Toolkit's repository" but that seems really off.
> 
> Is this easier to understand?

I rewrote this as:

If you're interested in contributing to our documentation, go to the [grafana/writers-toolkit repository](https://github.com/grafana/writers-toolkit) for relevant resources.

Reviewer: That's much easier!
